README.md, before:

# .configfiles
The bare repository for config files.
This bare repository was created for the cross saving of linux and unix configuration dot files.
The following set of instructions creates a bare git repository for dotfiles that target a `.cfg` folder in the $HOME directory path. `.cfg` can be changed to any folder.

## How to start from scratch
First make sure github SSH is set up.
Then setup a bare repository.

[How to store dotfiles](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/dotfiles)

If you're running bash, the following is how to start:

    git init --bare $HOME/.cfg
    alias config='/usr/bin/git --git-dir=$HOME/.cfg/ --work-tree=$HOME'
    config config --local status.showUntrackedFiles no
    echo "alias config='/usr/bin/git --git-dir=$HOME/.cfg/ --work-tree=$HOME'" >> $HOME/.bashrc

Then ensure that a remote is setup

    $ config remote add origin https://github.com/user/repo.git
    # Set a new remote

    $ config remote -v
    # Verify new remote
    > origin  https://github.com/user/repo.git (fetch)
    > origin  https://github.com/user/repo.git (push)

Then start pushing to the remote
    
    config status
    config add .vimrc
    config commit -m "Add vimrc"
    config add .bashrc
    config commit -m "Add bashrc"
    config push

## Install stored files to new system
Ensure that the `config` is aliased

    alias config='/usr/bin/git --git-dir=$HOME/.cfg/ --work-tree=$HOME'
    
Ensure source repository ignores the folder to prevent recursion issues

    echo ".cfg" >> .gitignore
    
The remote repository needs to be cloned into a "dot"

    git clone --bare <git-repo-url> $HOME/.cfg

Alias the `config` command in the current shell
    
    alias config='/usr/bin/git --git-dir=$HOME/.cfg/ --work-tree=$HOME'
    
    config checkout
    
This might happen after the git checkout.
    
    error: The following untracked working tree files would be overwritten by checkout:
        .bashrc
        .gitignore
    Please move or remove them before you can switch branches.
    Aborting
    
The backup is required prior to checking out and overwriting existing profiles.
    
    mkdir -p .config-backup && \
    config checkout 2>&1 | egrep "\s+\." | awk {'print $1'} | \
    xargs -I{} mv {} .config-backup/{}

The untracked files should be shown to prevent the `$HOME` folder files from showing up during `config status`

    config config --local status.showUntrackedFiles no

Dotfiles can be then updated as follows

    config status
    config add .vimrc
    config commit -m "Add vimrc"
    config add .bashrc
    config commit -m "Add bashrc"
    config push

## Setting up WSL to use windows clipboard
A windows X server is required, along with vim with access to clipboard.
Refer to https://github.com/Microsoft/WSL/issues/892#issuecomment-275873108

Commit message:

Updated readme for most recent changes to WSL

README.md, after:

# .configfiles
The bare repository for config files.
This bare repository was created for the cross saving of linux and unix configuration dot files.
The following set of instructions creates a bare git repository for dotfiles that target a `.cfg` folder in the $HOME directory path. `.cfg` can be changed to any folder.

## How to start from scratch
First make sure github SSH is set up.
Then setup a bare repository.

[How to store dotfiles](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/dotfiles)

If you're running bash, the following is how to start:

    git init --bare $HOME/.cfg
    alias config='/usr/bin/git --git-dir=$HOME/.cfg/ --work-tree=$HOME'
    config config --local status.showUntrackedFiles no
    echo "alias config='/usr/bin/git --git-dir=$HOME/.cfg/ --work-tree=$HOME'" >> $HOME/.bashrc

Then ensure that a remote is setup

    $ config remote add origin https://github.com/user/repo.git
    # Set a new remote

    $ config remote -v
    # Verify new remote
    > origin  https://github.com/user/repo.git (fetch)
    > origin  https://github.com/user/repo.git (push)

Then start pushing to the remote
    
    config status
    config add .vimrc
    config commit -m "Add vimrc"
    config add .bashrc
    config commit -m "Add bashrc"
    config push

## Install stored files to new system
Ensure that the `config` is aliased

    alias config='/usr/bin/git --git-dir=$HOME/.cfg/ --work-tree=$HOME'
    
Ensure source repository ignores the folder to prevent recursion issues

    echo ".cfg" >> .gitignore
    
The remote repository needs to be cloned into a "dot"

    git clone --bare <git-repo-url> $HOME/.cfg

Alias the `config` command in the current shell
    
    alias config='/usr/bin/git --git-dir=$HOME/.cfg/ --work-tree=$HOME'
    
    config checkout
    
This might happen after the git checkout.
    
    error: The following untracked working tree files would be overwritten by checkout:
        .bashrc
        .gitignore
    Please move or remove them before you can switch branches.
    Aborting
    
The backup is required prior to checking out and overwriting existing profiles.
    
    mkdir -p .config-backup && \
    config checkout 2>&1 | egrep "\s+\." | awk {'print $1'} | \
    xargs -I{} mv {} .config-backup/{}

The untracked files should be shown to prevent the `$HOME` folder files from showing up during `config status`

    config config --local status.showUntrackedFiles no

Dotfiles can be then updated as follows

    config status
    config add .vimrc
    config commit -m "Add vimrc"
    config add .bashrc
    config commit -m "Add bashrc"
    config push

## Setting up WSL
Windows Subsystem for Linux is absolutely amazing, and I assert is the most powerful development tool for Windows.

### Using wsl_setup.sh
Simple type `bash wsl_setup.sh` in a bash terminal after downloading my `wsl_setup.sh`

### Clipboard issues with vim
Using vim or nvim is very good for productivity in general as long as the setup is completed carefully. Since Linux is a subsytem, it should be carefully administered where a windows X server is required, along with vim with access to Windows' clipboard.
Refer to [this thread](https://github.com/Microsoft/WSL/issues/892#issuecomment-275873108).
In short:
1. Install [VcXsrv](https://sourceforge.net/projects/vcxsrv/)
2. If it starts after installing, stop it
3. Start it using XLaunch (search in the start menu), go with all the defaults (ensure the clipboard options are checked)
4. At the end, save the configuration to a file (use that to start it from now on)
5. Put `export DISPLAY=localhost:0.0` in your `.bashrc` in bash for Windows (and run the command in any open bash windows). The reason I explicitly say localhost is that this makes SSH X forwarding work, see below.
6. Ensure vim is installed using clipboard support. `vim --version | grep clipboard` should say `+clipboard`, not `-clipboard`. Also if you run the ex command `:echo has('clipboard')` in `vim` and it says `0` it does not have clipboard support compiled in. If you don't have clipboard support, install the `vim-gtk` package (`apt-get install vim-gtk`).
7. Put the `config` file into Startup folder to ensure an X server is launched on startup
8. Yanking from vim now should have access to `"*` and `"+` which also sends the yanks straight to the Windows system clipboard.

### wsltty
The default ubuntu terminal is well and good but fonts and graphics do not appear very well. The alternative is [wsltty](https://github.com/mintty/wsltty). This is just preference.
